Spotify problem statement

Graduation Project - Jun 2026

Submission deadline :
Jul 6, 3:59:00 PM (Asia/Calcutta)
Choose any ONE product:

Spotify
Gaana
You are a Product Manager on the Growth Team at your chosen company..

The company has successfully acquired millions of users and built one of the world's most sophisticated recommendation systems. However, a significant percentage of listening still comes from repeat playlists, familiar artists, previously discovered tracks.

One of your company’s strategic goals is to increase meaningful music discovery and reduce repetitive listening behavior.

Part1: Build an AI-Powered Review Discovery Engine
Before proposing any solution, you must build an AI-powered system that analyzes user feedback at scale.

You may use:

Claude
GPTs
Agents
Workflows
RAG systems
n8n
Zapier
Perplexity
Any AI-native stack of your choice
The goal is to analyze:

App Store reviews
Play Store reviews
Reddit discussions
Community forums
Social media conversations
Your review analysis system should help answer questions such as:

Why do users struggle to discover new music?
What are the most common frustrations with recommendations?
What listening behaviors are users trying to achieve?
What causes users to repeatedly listen to the same content?
Which user segments experience different discovery challenges?
What unmet needs emerge consistently across reviews?
Part 2: Validate the Opportunity Through User Research
AI-generated insights are only a starting point. You must validate your findings through primary research.

Conduct 5-6 user interviews with the respondents belonging to the segment that you have chosen to focus on.

Part 3: Define the Problem
Based on your research, frame the problem by clearly articulating the root cause of the problem, the target user segment and why solving the problem makes business sense.

Part 4: Build an AI-Native MVP
Based on your insights, design and build a functional MVP.

The MVP may take the form of a prototype for a feature within the existing product or an agent. You need to deploy these to production.

The MVP must demonstrate why AI is uniquely suited to solving this problem.

You should clearly explain:

Why traditional recommendation systems are insufficient
What AI unlocks that was previously difficult
How AI changes the user experience
Deliverables
[Link] Demonstrate your Review Analysis Workflow by uploading
Link to test out your workflow
A 1-slider (inside the final deck) that outlines how this works.
[PDF]A 10-slide deck that outlines your thought process
[Link] A link to the prototype or the agent that you have deployed to production


